>>Welcome to the American
Southwest and the red rocks
of Sedona, Arizona where we
begin the Earth/Sky/Heart
Workshop with author and
teacher Drunvalo Melchizedek.
>>Hi.
I'm Drunvalo Melchizedek, and
welcome to the Earth/Sky/Heart
Workshop.
I'll be guiding you through this
film as you learn the material.
There'll be several
sacred ceremonies
that you will be
experiencing through here,
and many meditations that you
will have to learn and practice
as you do this.
Take the time.
Be part of these ceremonies,
and be part of the material
that you're learning.
Because you need to not
just see it and know it,
but you need to actually learn
it and live it and breathe it.
Now I'd like to introduce you
to the Creative Life Center.
In the main room there's
120 people from countries
all over the world
that are participating.
You will slowly meet these
people as they ask questions
and as they participate
through the workshop.
They came here as just
friends and people
that barely knew each other.
And over five days
they became very close,
almost like a family,
through this experience.
We filmed this using
state-off-the-art cameras
and equipment, hoping to enhance
your experience through these
next five days.
So relax, get comfortable,
and don't be serious.
It's better if you approach
this as a little child,
and just relax and not think
of everything as so important,
that you have to learn
it or you have to know it
and you have to do it right.
Just be there.
Be present.
Open your heart.
And it'll all come to.
You will all understand
it over time,
and you will remember
who you really are.
May this work that happens
over the next five days
be a blessing in your life
and all those that you love.
Now let's get started with day
one, the day of the opening.
[APPLAUSE]
Good morning, everyone.
[LAUGH]
Welcome to Hollywood.
[LAUGHTER]
OK, we're in Arizona,
Sedona, Arizona.
And this is the
Earth/Sky/Heart Workshop.
And this is going to be--
I don't think they probably
told you this-- but this is
going to be the last one ever.
You are at the
very, very last one.
I remember in 1994, I was
doing the Flower of Life,
and I did that
from 1984 to 1994.
And then all of a
sudden, I realized, wow.
It's over.
And then other
people took it on.
There was about 350 facilitators
that went around the world
to teach it.
And then after that I
realized, well, there
was all kinds of missing stuff.
[LAUGH]
There were things that I
forgot to put in the book.
I thought I did, but I didn't.
And then there
was a lot of stuff
that I've learned over time.
The evolution just kept going.
And so this workshop has evolved
pretty dramatically, especially
in the last two or three years.
And at this point,
we have permission
to change everything.
Now for you who have
started with the Merkaba,
this is perfect.
This is exactly what you need.
But in the future,
starting in July,
we're going to do
something very different.
It actually isn't different in
the context-- in the content.
It's the way that
it is delivered.
Initially, it was decided
by the ascended masters
that they couldn't deliver
this information the way
that they always had.
Meaning they gave it
first to the female--
from the female point
of view, and then
from the male point of view.
And so they began with a heart.
That's where they started.
They didn't talk
about the Merkaba.
The Merkaba wasn't
the first thing.
It was the last thing
that was discussed.
And that's still true
in Tibetan Buddhism.
If you're studying
Tibetan Buddhism,
you don't know
about the Merkaba.
You have to die first before
you can find out about it.
[LAUGHTER]
You have to die 13 times.
You have to go
through 13 lifetimes
before they even
discuss that with you.
And then finally they
do, and they put you up
on a-- usually like 17,000,
20,000 feet in the air where
it's about 100 below zero, and
they put wet blankets on you.
You're naked, and they
put wet blankets on you
and they say, hope you live.
[LAUGHTER]
And you've got about 10
seconds to do it right.
And all you do is you program
your Merkaba that within it,
it's whatever temperature you
set at, it is that temperature.
And you will melt the
circle, out their teachers
can see that taking place.
And then they know
that you knew,
or you know what
you're talking about.
If you don't, you die.
And so-- but I don't know
if anybody's ever died.
You can actually get that.
You can buy that video.
They actually--
which is hard for me
to believe-- but the
Tibetans allowed them,
which was about seven
years ago or so,
to video an actual
monk doing this.
And I think it's
with the Discovery
Channel or the History Channel,
one of those kind of channels.
It would take a little research.
I'm sure you can find it.
But you can get it and
see this happening.
OK.
Anyway, when the ascended
masters first put this out,
which was about roughly 1980,
before I started teaching,
they gave it out
through the female way,
and nobody showed
up but females.
[LAUGHTER]
There'd be, like, a room
full of females and one guy
back in the corner, chewing
his fingernails, you know?
[LAUGHTER]
And nobody-- nobody came.
Not both sides of the
coin, they didn't come.
And it was clear after
about three or four years
that this was not working.
And the reason is
because when we fell
and because of a lot
of influences from ETs
and other kinds of things
that were going on,
we evolved almost totally
left brained and logical.
So now we're just a
completely-- we're,
like, becoming Dr. Spock.
We're becoming a male race.
And so it was decided to switch
over and reverse this and begin
with the Merkaba.
And they waited
until-- they knew
it would happen, that eventually
we would discover crystals,
which we did.
And then we all got
into these crystals.
And, you know, the
whole movement.
Wow, wow.
Look at crystals.
And they started
realizing they're alive.
But eventually, they
look inside and they
see all the geometries.
And when they did, that's when
we introduced sacred geometry
in 1984.
And it worked.
I mean, the men were attracted
to this because it was logical
and it made sense, and
so it pulled the men.
And that was required.
We couldn't just do the women.
We had to do both the
men and the women.
And so that worked, and
it's been continuing up.
But it had a lot of side effects
that normally don't happen.
Because we introduced something
as sacred as the Merkaba
while people still
had these huge egos,
it caused people to
take it, run with it,
change it, make all
kinds of changes in it
that you can't do.
You can't change even
one tiny thing in it,
or it doesn't work.
And it's just exactly like
"The Torah," where in the Torah
if you change one letter,
you can throw away
the book because it
doesn't represent
what it was trying to put out.
And this is the same way.
It has to be done in
this particular way.
It took billions of years to
get there, and a lot of life
was lost.
Whole planets were
destroyed because they
were attempting to do
something that didn't work.
And so it's-- and the other
reason you can't change it is
because the Earth,
all the planets,
and the sun are all rotating
with a tetrahedral Merkaba
at 34 21.
And so if you use
any other Merkaba
and you're trying to go
through ascension to higher
consciousness, you have a
problem because you're not
in harmony and in
frequency with the Earth,
and she's the one that's
going to do this ascension.
It's not you.
You may think you're doing
it, but she's doing it.
And you need to be
in harmony with her
as you move through
these various levels
of consciousness.
When we get to the
fourth dimension,
she's going to change her
Merkaba to something else.
Who knows what she's
going to change it to?
[LAUGH]
She's a woman.
She'll do anything.
[LAUGHTER]
We don't know what
she's going to do.
We know all the options
that she could do.
But what she's going to do and
actually do, we'll find out.
And when we do, ours will
also change automatically.
We will map right with her.
She makes all these changes.
Anyway all this for
the last 10 years
has had certain problems
that we've never seen before.
But we've made it to
this point, and we
have made it, by the way.
We're going to go.
For sure, absolutely, we're
going to go all the way.
Humanity is not
going to wipe out.
And there was a lot of life.
[APPLAUSE]
Yeah.
I was pretty excited
when I found out too.
[LAUGHTER]
Well, because I
found out-- I mean,
there are a lot of life around
the universe that really didn't
think we were going to make it.
You know, they just
said, there's no way.
We can't possibly do this.
But we did.
And it was a big surprise
for a lot of people.
And there were all
these other people.
They will make it.
Absolutely.
They're going to make it.
[LAUGH]
And-- but because we
were affecting everyone.
What happens here is going to
affect all life everywhere,
without any exception.
It's going to affect everyone.
And now the universe
knows it's worked,
and everything-- people
have relaxed everywhere,
because it was kind of scary
for a while for some people.
When I say people, I meaning ET
people that are still people.
They just look different.
[LAUGH]
So now what we have
permission to do
is to completely rewrite
this back to the way
that it was originally given.
And we can do this now,
because we have changed.
We are not who we were
25 years ago or so.
We have really, really,
really, changed.
I mean, a lot of
the things I'm going
to be talking about in
this workshop today,
25 years ago if you
even brought it up,
they'd just throw you in a
garbage can or something.
They wouldn't ever believe you
or think it was even possible.
And so we are a different--
we have already made changes
within us that are huge.
And because of this, we can
begin in the original way,
and we start with the heart.
And we actually move up
the chakra instead of down.
And at this point, it will be
a lot easier, a lot simpler
than the route
that you guys took.
The Merkaba's complicated.
Sacred geometry is complicated.
Well, you don't even
have to know that stuff.
Here we're going to
begin with a heart,
we're going to learn
about sexual energy
and the relationship of
it, move up the throat,
through to the tongue, and from
there up to the thalamus gland.
There's a whole thing-- and
we're going to still do it,
but we're going to do
this in a different order.
And what happens is when you
do it in this other order--
at least this is what has
always happened before.
We won't know for
sure if this is
going to happen till
we see it happen.
But what has always
happened before is
when you do it in
this other way,
the Merkaba happens
automatically.
You don't even have to do it.
It just-- choo!
Goes out.
It's still just as powerful.
You can still program it
and work like any other way,
but you don't even need to
know it has tetrahedrons.
You don't have to know anything.
Which is pretty much how most
people throughout the universe
learned this.
They learned it by experience
and then later studied it
and understood what
it was internally.
But they picked
it up right away.
And this is happening all
over the world right now.
There's people that
don't know-- even
know what the word Merkaba is,
and they're just sitting there.
But because of the changes
that are happening within us,
they're just-- it's
just happening to them.
They're just sitting in a
bathtub or something, then--
[TICK]
And they can feel this thing
rotating around them, you know?
What's that?
[LAUGHTER]
You know?
And they're figuring it out.
That began right before the
turn of the last century
was when we started noticing
that happen around the world.
It's going a lot faster now.
There are millions
and millions--
there's probably over at
least 100 million people
in their Merkabas now.
I mean, it's really out there.
And it's moving
faster at this moment.
This is a great
time to be alive.
[LAUGH]
It is.
It's just exciting.
I can hardly stand it.
What's going on with the
sun right now is awesome.
[LAUGH]
And the magnetic fields.
It looks like the science
things, and it's negative.
They think that this is
scary and it potentially
could shut the planet down.
I mean, literally close it down.
But I'm going to talk about
this in depth at one point,
probably on the third day.
Because there's something
going on that if you understand
it and you understand what it
is and you know how to-- and you
know your energy fields,
you can take this energy
and make it really positive
instead of negative.
And because it's
happening right now,
it's making people all
over the world sick.
There's lots and lots
of people getting sick,
and there's about 35 different
types of sickness and illness
that's coming out from it.
But it's all being caused
by the magnetic field
and the stress that's in the
magnetic field right now.
But we'll get into all this.
Anyway, beginning
in July, there'll
be a new training for anyone
who wishes to teach this work.
If you want to and if you
think you can, you can.
However, we're only going to
give two of these trainings.
We're not going to
do this all the time.
I mean, maybe there might be
another one in the future.
But there's one in--
there's one in July,
and there's one in
January of 2012.
And that's mostly for the
Flower of Life facilitators
that exist out there
right now so they
can be retrained in
this new way, which
includes everything,
not just the Merkaba
but the whole thing.
What you're going to receive,
but in a different order.
So I just wanted to let
you know that so you
understood that this is it.
This is the last one.
[LAUGH]
And to talk about this one
now, the Earth/Sky/Heart,
the way it's evolved, it
has changed quite a bit
over the years, and
especially the last day we
have something
different in there
completely, because there's
another level of consciousness
that we have to-- we have
to not just understand it.
I mean, we have to be it.
We have to know it.
You have to learn.
In order to get into the
other levels and stay stable
and in order to
continue on, which
is what we're going
to have to do,
you have to know
that you are creating
every single thing
in the universe
with every breath you're taking.
This is hard to
understand right now,
but you have to know what
the creation process is,
and you have to know exactly
how it works, precisely.
And there's two different ones.
There's one that you can
do from your brain and one
from your heart.
And you have to understand
the one from the brain,
but don't use it, because you'll
understand when we get there.
And then there's another way
to create from the heart.
And once you understand that
way of creating from the heart,
you can change your lives
in any way you want.
It's OK.
The heart will
make this creation,
make the change without doing
any harm to anyone, anywhere,
on any level of existence.
And you can have anything
you want, and it's OK.
You can have all
the money you want,
you can have all the-- whatever
it is that you feel you need.
It's not a problem.
But that's not the
reason you're doing it.
[LAUGH]
You're doing it just
so that you have
to choose things to understand.
Like with Jesus, he had
to turn water into wine.
He had to do that, and he had
to do it publicly so that-- he
couldn't just hide it.
He had to show that
he was doing it.
Eventually you'll have
to do it publicly too.
You'll have to see
that it is real.
But it's dangerous.
There's danger
associated with this
too because the ego is still
involved in this process
as you're beginning
to understand.
And so when you-- when you
enter into the creation process
while your ego is still there,
there's always this concern
that your ego will see yourself
doing something that's kind
of outrageous and they go, wow.
Look how great I am.
[LAUGH]
Wow, I'm a pretty
important person.
You know?
And then start going
out and publicly
demonstrating to make
money and fame and all
this other kind of stuff.
You just lost the game.
It's just over.
You've got to wait till
your next lifetime,
because you just crashed
and burned, basically.
You have to be very
careful entering into this.
But on the other hand,
you have no choice.
You have to go through it.
The Hindus have spent so
much time discussing this.
These are the sitas, the powers
of what are human potential.
But still, it is dangerous
only because of the ego.
It is also dangerous if
it's done through the brain,
because the brain is a
polarized instrument,
and it's male on one side
and female and the other.
And so whatever you create,
whatever your intention is
that you create
through the brain,
you will get what you ask for.
But you will also,
from the direction
that you can't see back
here, will come something
that you really don't want.
It'll be exactly the opposite
of what your intention was.
And the people that are
working with The Secret,
they're figuring that one
out probably about now.
[LAUGHTER]
They're all in court with
each other and fighting.
They made $600 million on that
DVD, and it's all being frozen.
They're all fighting
with each other.
And the things are coming back
to them from the other way,
like with James Ray,
what happened with him.
You know?
And so-- but there is a way
to go into this process, which
we'll show you over
the next five days,
that you don't have to have any
fear at all of worry or concern
or anything because of where
it's being generated from,
from within the heart.
And the heart is
really intelligent.
And it has this
deep, deep wisdom,
and knows exactly
how to give you
what you want without
polarizing it,
because it's not-- the
heart is not polarized,
and without doing harm.
The brain doesn't
care if it does harm.
The ego just doesn't.
It just doesn't care.
Usually it doesn't care.
Maybe somebody's brain does,
but most of them don't.
[LAUGH]
OK.
Now this workshop
here, since we're
talking about two
different ones,
this one, Earth/Sky/Heart, is
divided-- is five days long.
And I'm just going to talk
about the different days.
They're really utterly
different each day.
This day I call the
day of the opening.
And really, most of what's
going on during this time
is not physical.
It has to do with all
of our higher selves
are right now having
a party somewhere.
[LAUGHTER]
And they're all
laughing and talking
and exchanging energy
in different ways,
and doing things.
And they're all
excited, I'm sure,
because they know that
you're here physically,
and we're all going to get this.
But anyway, the party is
what's really important.
[LAUGH]
It's the connection that
we are making right now.
This connection started
a long time ago.
At the moment you
decided to come here,
we connected in the dream world.
Probably a lot of you
may remember this.
Some of you may not but
probably, a very large number
do remember.
And we used the ancient
Egyptian temple of dreams
and what they've learned
in that as a school
to begin the process.
But once we actually
get here in this day,
this is when this thing happens
on another level of existence
that is really important.
So what happens on
this day, we could just
sit around and hang out under
trees or something, you know?
I mean, really.
It is the essence of what's
happening is this thing.
But I'm going to use the time.
[LAUGH]
But that's the most important
thing that's going on.
Then tomorrow we're
going to switch from that
to the body itself, and it'll be
a day of healing and primarily
working on the chakra
system, and specifically
on the two heart chakras.
You have one heart chakra
here and another one here.
And this one's connected
directly to the heart,
and the upper one's
connected to the right brain.
And so we have two
emotional bodies.
We have one here, which is the
one where you function from,
which is polarized, which
has love and hate, et cetera,
back and forth.
And then we have this
other emotional body,
which most of us have
never experienced,
which is the same range
of positive emotions,
but it has no
negative ones at all.
It's the only place
that unconditional love
can actually really exist.
There is no such thing
as unconditional love
from the brain.
And that's where we usually
are attracted to our mates.
We see them because we like
the way they look or whatever,
or their money or
something, whatever
it is about them that we like.
And then we say we
love each other.
But that love is conditional.
All that person
has to do is just
say the wrong things at the
wrong time, and it's over.
[LAUGHTER]
But not true with the heart.
If you actually fell in love
with someone from your heart,
it wouldn't matter.
Wouldn't make any difference
what you were doing.
You would never stop
loving that person.
Ever.
And so this is another
part of all of this.
So we're going to focus on
these two heart chakras,
because that's where
most of our trauma is.
We also have deep trauma
in our sexual chakra,
but it's usually related.
There's usually a
relationship between it.
If you get this, you'll get a
lot of the sexual trauma also.
And this is stopping
a lot of people
from being able to
spiritually evolve.
There are other things
that are stopping us.
There's other levels
in our emotional body.
That's not the only thing,
but this is the biggest one.
And so if we can
just skip that one,
you'll find that your
meditation is easier, clearer,
and you can expand farther.
If you don't do anything
about this, then
what happens as you go up,
you hit a certain level
of meditation, and then
you can go for 30 years
and you don't go
one inch further,
because those traumas stop you
from proceeding any further.
And so it's important
that we do this.
And it's kind of fun, the
way it's been laid out.
This was archangel
Michael who created this.
It was not me.
Maybe tomorrow when we get
into it, I'll talk about it.
And then after that, we're going
to go into day three, which
is the day of the mind.
Again, total shift to
something completely different.
And we're going to-- a
lot of concepts and ideas
of everything that we're
going to try to straighten out
so that you can understand
what is going on
and what's happening on a
lot of different levels.
It helps your mental way of
perceiving what's going on.
And that also can--
ideas can also stop you.
Look what religions do.
And a lot of things, because
if you have the wrong concept,
it can-- it can stop you also.
And then on the fourth day, we
go into the day of the heart.
And that is the-- I can usually
hardly wait for that day.
[LAUGH]
I like it.
And it's a totally soft,
a different kind of day,
distinctly different than the
day before, which is the mind.
We're going to go
into the heart.
And that'll be all day long.
And then on the fifth
day, the last day,
we're going to go into what's
called tantra of the heart.
Because sexual energy
is important in life.
It isn't just pleasure.
There is a lot more
associated with it.
Sexual energy can create
a human being, a baby.
But it can also create
anything in existence.
Planets, galaxies, anything.
It takes three people to do it.
You can't do it by
yourself when you
start creating on these levels.
But it takes three
people to create a baby.
It takes one mommy,
a daddy, and a baby.
And one is male, one
is female, and the baby
can be male or female.
So it takes two
males and a female
or two females and a
male to create anything
on these higher levels.
That's minimum.
You can have a lot more.
Sometimes there's
hundreds or thousands
more that are working
together to do things.
But that's the minimum number.
And so we're going
to go into-- that's
where we're going to get
deep into the creation
process of how everything works.
And so this is a school.
This is-- and we might
laugh and have fun and play,
and all kinds of other things.
But we're going to
still keep focusing
on trying to give you the
knowledge and understanding
and direct experience
so that you can proceed
in your way of evolving.
And we're all different.
OK.
I think that's about it.
I don't know exactly-- there's--
by the way, there are certain--
though I have it all written
down where we're going to go
kind of, there's a lot of
little branches that go off.
And it depends on who you
are and what you need.
So I don't know.
This one may not be exactly the
same as another one that we do,
because it depends on what
the needs are of the group.
But whatever it is, that's
what we're going to do.
Because we are going to be a big
family before this is all over.
It's hard to imagine, because
we're from all over the world.
But we all really have the same
core, same purpose, reason,
same desires in life.
We're human beings,
and we have one mother.
That's Mother Earth.
And we have one divine father,
which is the sun itself.
And we have one-- there's
only a great spirit--
there is just one spirit
that moves through all life
everywhere.
So even weird looking ET is
really your brother or sister.
I mean, we're all interrelated.
And life right now really
does love us and care.
I have to add a little thing.
I have to say, I apologize for
what the graze of the reptiles
have done.
Because when that was our first
introduction to other life,
and those guys were just here
to kill us and get rid of us.
They had good reason to.
If you know and if you
understand what was going on
and why, we destroyed over
100 of the great planets.
Whole planets.
Killed everybody on it.
We did it.
And that's why they were
here, because otherwise,
they would have never came here,
and they came here to find out
what we were doing, and
then to try to correct it,
which they couldn't.
And then they just
wanted to eliminate us.
That's over.
Well, with the graze side it is.
It's not quite over
with the reptiles yet.
But it's almost over.
And it will be over
with very, very soon.
And what's behind that is
the rest of the universe.
And at this moment
right now, there
is a-- somewhere between 250,000
to maybe as many as 300,000
different cultures, different
races of species that
are here on Earth right now.
And they are here
out of pure love.
They're extremely high beings.
They understand the situation.
They came here to
raise our consciousness
because we weren't going
to make it on her own.
And their time-- their
time is about to go.
You're going to see the love.
You're going to feel it.
And it's almost here.
So you're going to see this just
over the next two, three years
or less.
You're going to realize
how much life is here,
and how much they care about
us and how powerful they are.
They're incredible.
So that's why I was
apologizing about the graze
of the reptiles,
because-- and there's
a few other little races that
are with them-- because they
had an agenda, and they were
trying to fulfill that agenda.
But that's going to
end and it's going
to be replaced with
something that's
going to make you feel
a lot better about life.
[LAUGH]
OK.
I will tell you a
little bit about myself,
because you're going to ask
me the questions anyway.
So I [INAUDIBLE].
I'm married.
My wife is Claudette.
I have five kids.
I've been very busy.
[LAUGHTER]
Three of them from
another family.
They're ranging
from about 35 to 39.
And then I'm starting all
over with an 18-year-old
and a 20-year-old girl.
Marley and Mia,
and they live here.
And what other question
did you ask me?
I can't remember.
Where am I from?
Where I am originally from?
[LAUGHTER]
OK.
Well, I'm definitely an ET.
There's no doubt about it.
I'm not from here at all.
But where I'm from
is where we're going.
And that's part of the
reason why I'm here
is to-- I had a frequency
of where I was from,
and then the ascended
masters took that from me
and figured out how
to get back there.
They made three
or four attempts.
And then finally in about the
mid '90s, they were convinced
and they all left.
All of them except
for seven of them.
And now about 4,000
of them are still--
4,000 people from humanity
are now in the new world
where-- new universe
that we're going to.
And then about 4,000
came back here.
And they have that
knowledge of how to do this.
That's why I know
we're going to make it.
We've made it, really.
Part of humanity
is already there.
They're no different--
ascended masters are
no different than you or me.
They just-- they're a
little bit further along.
A little bit.
Not much, but enough to--
it looks like a lot maybe,
but it isn't really.
You're going to be
there very, very soon.
And then coming in, I spent
about 15 years on Pleiades
on a particular planet there.
It's kind of like going down in
water or climbing a mountain.
You can't just go to the
top or go to the bottom.
You've got to go down in stages
and you have to learn things.
And so that's what--
the Pleiades is
like a university or a school.
And so I was
learning about Earth.
And then I went to so Sirius
for about a year-- I'm
talking about Earth year
times-- about a year there,
which they gave me very
definite training on that.
And then I flew here in a
big ship, a really big one.
It took 400 people
just to fly it.
And I came here, came to Venus
first because that's their--
it's the headquarters
of the solar system,
and you have to get permission.
We were already going
through the stages.
And then I came here.
I came here in 1840.
But immediately, went in to the
fourth dimension on the Earth,
looking for somebody.
And there was nobody there.
Nobody that had any
consciousness hardly.
And then went up
and found them all.
All the ascended masters
were in the sixth dimension
of the Earth's awareness.
I spent about 10 years
trying to understand.
Then I felt like I knew it.
I came down, and I was born my
first lifetime here in 1850.
And then died in 1890.
But I made so many mistakes.
Oh my God.
I just-- I just-- I did
everything wrong possible.
[LAUGHTER]
And I was so sure
that I had it down.
And so then I went
back there and I said,
God, you guys didn't tell
me all this stuff, you know.
[LAUGHTER]
It hurts to be down there.
So I stayed a long time.
And the time as different.
As you go up in dimensions,
time gets longer, bigger.
You have more of it.
And so I was there
from 1890 to 1972.
That was 82 years.
That's a long, long,
long, long time.
And I figured, OK.
Now I've got it.
And I didn't--
wasn't born normally.
I walked into this body on
just a couple days-- April 10
of 1972, and been
here ever since.
>>Is that your birthday?
>>That's the birth-- yeah.
Well, I consider--
that's my birthday,
because that's when I came in.
But the body was older.
The body's 70 years
old, but I'm only 39.
[LAUGHTER]
[APPLAUSE]
But I can only say
that for one more year.
[LAUGHTER]
>>You remember this?
>>Oh, yeah.
He asked if I remember this.
I remember everything.
We have within our heart
a special little place
that records everything.
Everything we've ever
said, ever done, ever felt.
Scratching our head, anything.
It's total Akashic
records, first of all.
And so it's all there.
And you will remember.
In fact, the name of
this school that we're
going to reverse
this whole thing,
it's called the
school of remembering.
Because you don't need
to learn anything.
You're all masters.
You all know this
stuff inside and out.
You just had a bump on your
head and are just a little--
forgot a little bit.
And all you have
to do is remember.
When you connect back
into your heart properly,
all your members will come back.
You'll remember everything.
But it isn't just your memories.
It's the entire universe.
It's the Akashic
records of everything.
Not just the past, but
the past, the present,
and eternal future.
All-- everything.
It's all recorded.
It's already happened.
This is kind of weird for us
to try to understand this now,
but what we're doing
has already occurred.
This is why in
"The Torah" there's
a code inside "The Torah" that
they called the "Bible" code,
but it was really
just "The Torah" code.
And in there, every word
that I'm saying right now
is written down.
It's already happened.
>>How'd you get your name?
>>My name?
They gave it to me.
I didn't have-- I
was Melchizedek.
But they gave me this name
specifically for Earth,
Drunvalo Melchizedek.
I don't know why they
gave me that name.
They just did.
They said, here's your name.
And I go, thank you very much.
And what is it now?
Say it again.
[LAUGH]
It's a Druid name.
In fact, the whole name,
Drunvalo and Melchizedek
is an English Druid name.
And the Druids see
Melchizedek as living
in the center of the Earth.
And so they look down.
That understanding is so wise.
I mean, in terms of how--
where life is and how it works.
If we have time-- I
don't know if we will
or not-- that's part
of what's called
the advanced workshop of this.
But the center of the Earth
is exactly identical to what's
outside the Earth.
The entire stars,
planets, everything
in the same exact arrangement,
same precise everything
exists in the very, very center
of the Earth in a spot so small
that you couldn't see it
if it was here right now.
And this is what it's all about.
The Fibonacci seq-- I mean,
the golden mean rectangle
rotates in-- or
the spiral, if you
want to look at it that
way-- rotates in forever
and ever and ever, going in,
getting smaller and smaller
and smaller forever.
That's what's in the Earth.
But from this place where
we are right now, whatever
size you start at,
it'll also rotate
out forever and ever and ever
and expand forever and ever.
And that's what
you see out there.
And they are the same.
Nassim Haramein is actually
proving this right now.
He's a physicist.
PhD, I believe.
He's not PhD?
What is he?
>>Just self-taught.
>>Self-taught.
>>Self-taught?
>>Yes.
>>He's not-- he
doesn't have a degree?
>>No.
>>I didn't know that.
>>>>[INAUDIBLE] for 30 years
to think outside the box.
>>Yeah.
OK.
I didn't know that.
That's interesting to know that,
because he was putting himself
off like he was-- so that's why
he calls himself a scientist.
OK.
What we're going to do now is
I have to check your Merkabas.
Now everybody here is supposed
to have been practicing this
for at least six weeks
before you got here,
so you can understand.
But still, what I've
discovered all over
the world is that
people make mistakes.
They don't understand
something and they
start doing a practice in
there, and that practice is not
going to benefit them at all.
And so we need to
correct these things.
Most of them are talked
about in the books.
But people just sort
of glance over that.
They just keep right on
going, and they never
really notice it.
And so there's things I have to
find out, if you have mistakes.
Let me see.
One of these things
is probably--
I'm just going to start
with the most important one.
Because this one is
essential because if you
are doing it wrong, you will
eventually start getting sick,
and eventually you'll die.
So I mean, it's
pretty important.
[LAUGHTER]
And there's people
out there actually
teaching this, which is--
really blows my mind,
and there's nothing I can
do or you can do about it.
It's just the way it is.
There's going to be
casualties in this.
But you can't
reverse your field.
If you reverse your field,
it's an anti-life force,
and it'll actually kill you.
And everybody knows
this everywhere.
You can just look
at the planets.
If you look from north
pole of all the planets,
they're all rotating--
and the sun,
they're rotating
counterclockwise.
When a planet starts to rotate
the other way, everything on it
will die.
Even if it has an atmosphere
and water and everything else,
it would die.
The planet's time is different.
It would take a while.
It might take a thousand years,
but it would eventually happen.
If you go into nature
anywhere, you'll see vortexes.
Sedona's not the only
place that has vortexes.
They're everywhere.
Though there are places where
you go where there are just,
like, none.
I mean, there are areas.
They're just-- you
won't find very many.
But this place is
loaded with them.
There are about--
little tiny ones
are about every three feet.
They're all over the place.
If you put a pendulum
out, especially when
you get into the red
rocks, you'll see this.
But if you go into
where there's trees
and you can-- not just
rocks, but where there's
trees and plants and things
like that, you'll see these--
they're perfect
circles, usually.
They're absolutely
flawless most of the time.
They're perfectly round circles.
And everything-- and
they're the thickness
of even thinner than a
sheet of paper of where
you're in it and not in it.
Like there's one--
how many people
have been to--
what's that called?
The Mystery Spot in California.
You know?
In these vortexes, they make
all kinds of distortions.
You have one there, I
think at the Mystery Spot,
where you have a
thing like this.
You put the ball at the
bottom, and it rolls up.
There's another one where they
have a piece of concrete that's
halfway in the vortex and
halfway out of the vortex.
And it's perfectly level.
And you can bring
your own level.
There's a level on it, but
you can bring your own level
and see.
It's perfectly level.
And you can have two people
exactly the same size,
one standing on this
thing, the same thing,
one standing inside.
And you're about--
the person inside
is about four or
five inches shorter.
And you change
places and look back
the other way, and all of the
sudden, you're really short
and they're really tall.
And you can explain it
in any way you want,
but there's
distortions that take
place inside of these things.
Well, what you'll also find
is that especially here, you
can see them here where
there's trees and everything,
that if a tree is
inside there, the tree
trunk is going to rotate in
the direction of the vortex.
And so you'll see tree trunks
that are just twisted around
like this.
If they happen to be
in a anti-clockwise
or a counterclockwise vortex
as you're looking down
at it from the north, they
will be stronger and better
and healthier.
Even though they're all twisted
up, they'll be doing great.
If you go to one where
you see a tree that
is rotating the other way,
the tree is usually dead.
It means that the
vortex happened
after it started growing.
And everything-- and then you
won't see any little bushes
or anything in there at all.
They'll be long gone after that.
It'll just be totally vacant.
Wherever you see a positive
one, it goes up in the air,
comes back down, and it reverses
the field by doing that.
And so wherever
there's a positive one,
there's always a negative on.
They always link together.
Well, we're the same way.
And so if you rotate your
field this way, you're fine.
But if you switch those
fields and go that way,
you've just created an anti-life
forcefield around your body,
and you're going to get weak
and eventually get sick.
And eventually, you
won't be able to survive.
And so I've got to see
if anybody's doing this.
[LAUGH]
It's really simple.
From a point in front of you,
are you rotating the male one
to your left 34?
Is there anybody not doing that?
No?
From a point in front.
If you pick the
point-- once I had
a person who was really sick.
They got-- ended
up in a wheelchair.
And this was only about
three or four years
into doing the Merkaba,
and they were just getting
sicker and sicker and sicker.
And when she described it
to me, she was saying, no.
I'm doing exactly
what you're saying.
And I just couldn't
understand it,
because it just-- the
symptoms were so clear to me.
But she was saying, no, no.
I'm going 34 to the left
and 34 to the right.
And then after a long
discussion with her,
I found out she didn't
pick a point in front.
She picked a point in the back.
I said, why?
I don't know.
But she was going 34
this way, 21 this way,
and it reversed the field.
As soon as she switched
it back the other way
and chose a point
in front of her so
the reference was correct,
all of her symptoms went away
and she's fine.
And so nobody's doing
that here, I don't think.
OK.
Yes?
Oh.
We need the mic.
This is Natalia here
who's bringing, just
to introduce you.
>>I changed my name.
>>Oh, you did?
What is it?
>>Olivia.
>>Olivia?
Oh, OK.
All right.
>>Hi, Olivia.
>>I didn't know that.
[LAUGHTER]
>>In the book, in
the explanation,
in the whole rotation with one
going one way and one going
the other way, I found
that in meditating,
it was so complex that my
brain just-- it curled.
It just started-- so I
just gave the intent for it
to do what it does.
So I couldn't tell you
which way it's going,
because I haven't tried to--
>>Well, actually
that works perfect.
>>Why?
[LAUGH]
There's two ways of
creating the Merkaba.
One is male and one is female.
And the male way has to
know every little detail,
and has to stay
within the boundaries
of the logical patterns.
But the female
doesn't work on logic.
She works in another way,
which is mostly intention,
like you were just saying.
And you can do that.
But I was-- my instructions were
to teach the male way, to get
the males to come to this.
Now with this new way
that we're about to do it,
that's exactly what will happen.
When you get to
the final patterns
and you get all these
things linked up,
you just tell it to do
it, and you don't even
have to know what's spinning
around you or what or how,
and it'll do it perfectly.
And it's mostly women
throughout the world
that are doing it in this way.
The men can do it
just as well, but men
tend to want to go
to the logical way.
And so you're fine.
OK?
The next one.
Is there anybody here that is
doing the Merkaba where you
have a-- I'll try to lock this.
Don't, no, no!
I want to move!
[LAUGH]
Where this point-- this
is the male point forward
and the female point forward.
It doesn't really matter.
I'll use the male one.
But is there anybody taking
this male or the sun tetrahedron
and spinning it one
way, and the female one,
and spinning it
in the other way?
Is there anyone doing that?
Just so you know, there's
a spectrum of Merkabas
that are possible.
The universe has found a
little more than 100,000.
There's about 100,000 and
200,000, approximately.
And that's what they've learned.
They haven't found a new one
in a very, very long time
because they've exhausted
all possibilities.
But if you spin the top
one way and the bottom one
the other way,
that's the first one.
That's the very first,
simplest, easiest way
to create an energy
field around your body.
And medicine men and
shamans all around the world
have been doing this
for thousands of years.
And there's nothing
wrong with it.
It's just that it's
very, very limited.
You can go fourth dimensional,
but you can't go any higher.
And so you can do fancy things.
I mean, you can disappear.
You can, you know,
all kinds of stuff.
And you can gain information and
knowledge, and lots of things
that you can do that shamans
haven't done with it.
But it's not capable
of making the movement
that we need to make.
And so they eliminated that
one and went to the second one.
And the second one
is the realization
that there's actually
three sets of these things,
and they're on the same axis.
And so when they're
stationary, which
is where they are
around most people,
if you could
psychically see them,
you'd just see one
set sitting there
when there's actually
three, because they're
the same size on the same axis.
But there's one set that is male
that is electrical in nature,
and it's basically
our mind, and it
moves this way, counterclockwise
relative to where I am.
And then the female one,
which is magnetic in nature,
and is the emotional body work
and it goes the other way.
And then there's
one that's fixed.
It doesn't move.
However, just so you understand,
because a lot of people
don't understand this, the
difference between 34 and 21
is 13.
That's the whole thing.
If you put it into a computer
and made this computer model
to do it, you'd see it.
The whole thing rotates
around counterclockwise at 13
while the other things
are doing this thing
in the middle in there.
Yes, it is complicated.
The human body is complicated.
And if you look inside the
muscles and all the nerves
and all the stuff
that's in here,
it's amazing what's
going on inside here.
And our light body is
actually really simple
compared to the other, but
it's still complicated.
So just with your
intention, make
sure that you understand that
it's a full set going that way,
a full set going that way,
and one set that's fixed.
And it'll be fine.
However, let me
find out if there's
any other-- because if
you have been doing this
with just the top one one
and the bottom one other one,
when you switch, when
you realize the situation
and you switch to
this system, usually
for the first time, what
I see a lot of times--
it may not happen now, but it
usually does-- the person just
breaks out in a sweat.
I mean, just like-- they get
really hot and start sweating.
And it lasts about
five minutes, and then
it never happens again.
So I'm just telling you that now
so if you do change this later
and you do break out in a sweat,
just don't worry about it.
It'll go away.
It'll never happen again.
It's the body.
There's a lot-- this
is a lot more energy.
There's really many, many,
many times more energy,
and the body, when it
actually experiences it,
sometimes has a little reaction.
Oh, one more.
>>OK.
So when I started doing it,
I did the top and the bottom.
And I felt a heat.
And now I understand-- I
understand what happened.
But then I switch it, but
when I do the intention,
instead of spinning
like this and like that,
it spins like this.
>>Over the top?
>>And it spins like that.
Why?
I mean, it's just--
it just happened.
>>There are a few people in
the world that it happens with.
It's very, very rare.
You're about one in maybe
400,000 or 500,000 people.
It's very rare that instead
of spinning this way,
it spins over the
top, does that.
If that's what's happening
with you and it's natural--
you didn't intend it or
force it or anything to do
it-- don't worry about it.
Stay there and just do it
coming out of the sides
rather than out
through the axis.
The angels actually had
me learn how to do that.
But I never understood why they
had me learn how to do that.
But there's a lot
of things we can
do with this that I don't talk
about, and that's one of them.
Do you-- I've only met
maybe three or four people.
You're probably about
the fifth one ever.
Do you have a-- all
of these other people
had this particular problem.
And it was that if they
stand in a certain direction
in a certain place, they
stand there for a little bit,
they begin to dissolve.
They disappear.
Nothing like this has
ever happened to you?
>>Not yet.
[LAUGHTER]
>>But you're waiting.
Yeah.
We had a yoga
teacher in Seattle,
and he said he just had to
be really, really careful.
Because if he stood in
a certain direction,
which was kind of like-- it
was toward the north somewhere.
And he says, if I stay
there for more than four
or five minutes, I just
absolutely no poof,
and I'm gone.
And he's done it in front of
his people, not intentionally,
and freaked them out.
[LAUGHTER]
And so they were
really concerned.
Am I doing something wrong?
What's going to happen
to me, or anything?
But my inner guide
is saying, no.
There's these really strange
people that have this,
and it's OK.
You have a function
in the reality.
It's like every person, every
cell in the body-- you've
got red cells, but you've
got these little white cells
that go around and keep
everything clean and stuff.
And so your function
in reality's
a little different
for what you do,
but you're really important.
And so on the bigger
level of life.
And so just go with it
and don't worry about it.
OK.
Is that it?
Looks like it.
Oh, one-- one more.
>>So what's the ideal?
>>Ideally for most
people, one set of these
should be going from a
point in front of you
to your left, 34 times around,
while this one is going around
21 times around, a female.
And that's a ratio.
It's a Fibonacci ratio.
Those are Fibonacci numbers.
And they're all
Fibonacci possibilities.
So there's a 34
21, there's 34 55.
You could reverse it
and go the other way.
You can actually
use reverse fields,
but you have to
know how to do it.
A reverse field is putting the
female stronger than the male.
And when that happens,
it's dangerous.
[LAUGH]
Is that dangerous from
the male point of view?
[LAUGHTER]
Probably.
It takes two males to balance
her when she's strong.
It takes one below
and one above.
We did this work a long
time ago in one of them.
And then a lot of people didn't
realize that that wasn't even
four human beings.
It was four planets.
That's when we were activating
the Earth's Merkaba field.
And her Merkaba field had been
shut down for over 500 years.
It was actually recorded
in the Mayan calendar.
It's about 528 years ago from
right now, approximately.
And at the same time,
Amaterasu in Japan,
it was exactly the same year
that she went inside the Earth
also.
And so we went into this
darkness at that time.
Well, just to keep it shorter
because we've to-- we've only
got one minute--
[LAUGHTER]
I lost where I was
going with that.
Got it to Amaterasu and--
[LAUGH]
>>[INAUDIBLE]
>>The ideal.
>>Oh, the i-- well, the ideal
for us now for most people--
and there are exceptions--
is a star tetrahedron--
tetrahedronal Merkaba
rotating 34 times, 21 times.
And that's for us right now.
Again, once we make this
consciousness change,
we're going to go up
in energy dramatically.
Our body is going--
our body right now
is almost pure mass
and very little energy.
When we get through
here, our body
is going to be almost pure
energy and very little mass.
In fact, if I was fourth
dimensional right now,
you wouldn't be able to see me.
But I'd been here,
but you wouldn't
be able to see me
because my atoms are
at such tremendous
distances that you'd just
see right through me.
It's really true of everything.
I mean, these walls
and everything,
there's nothing there.
It's all space.
It's just like looking
into the stars.
It's all space.
There's very, very
little matter there.
Yeah?
>>So when I see through
my hand, is that the same?
>>As what?
>>As when I-- my hand
disappears and I look at it?
>>Well, it means that
you, your consciousness
is beginning to-- as long as
it's not an illusion that's
happening with you.
[LAUGH]
Well, I mean that's
possible too.
But I know-- I've done
what you're talking about,
and if you do, you're
starting to interface
with the fourth dimension and
you can see right through it.
We have a lot of potential.
We can do all kinds of things,
and we don't have any idea,
so we don't do them.
But human potential
is just unbelievable.
And it doesn't happen
all over the world,
because we don't know that
we can do these things,
and what's possible.
But yeah.
You could see right
through walls.
You can do amazing things.
You can even walk through walls.
They've got three-- the
Chinese-- scientists.
They're scientific.
They have completely recorded,
and using scientific method,
have now three human
beings that have
walked through a solid wall.
And that was recorded in the
science journals all the way
up there.
But other scientists read this.
They go-- they don't even
know what to do with it.
They just turn the page
and keep going because they
don't know where it is.
But it is-- they've
watched people do this.
Yeah?
>>Last-- I've been doing the
Merkaba for over six weeks,
but I've been doing the single.
The left of the male and
the right of the female.
And just a single, and
that's why I couldn't quite
understand the book.
But last night, I started
doing the set of--
>>You got the whole set going.
Yeah, OK.
OK.
>>And I always before
was cold, always cold.
>>We actually have a
thermostat in our body.
It's right here, the
thymus gland right here.
And you can set it.
You can change your thermostat
so you're warm or cool,
whatever you want.
And they teach this as
one of the sitas in India.
I used to have a guy in Taos
when I was living there.
And he came out of India.
But it was in the
summer, and he was
wearing shorts and a
t-shirt and nothing else.
No shoes or anything.
And then when we
approached winter in Taos,
it gets 25 below zero.
And at 25 below zero, I remember
going, I'm in down jackets.
I've got stuff all over,
everything like that.
And he's still in the
shorts and t-shirt,
and we're just going for
a walk out in the snow.
[LAUGH]
And he sits down.
He just starts melting
everything around him.
And I had to talk to him
about this, you know?
[LAUGHTER]
And he says, oh, yeah.
It's just right here.
It's your thalamus.
You can just adjust it
with your intention.
And once you set that, then
that's your temperature.
And so I've never
been cold since then.
I just don't get
cold hardly at all.
I mean, I still wear jackets and
things, but I never get cold.
The disk that pops out.
What's really interesting
is almost everybody
got this one wrong.
[LAUGHTER]
It's like 80% or something.
And it took us a long
time to figure it out.
And then when we
did figure it out,
it took us an even longer time
to figure out what it did.
And it changes the
nature of the chakras.
You have to-- it's not like
a really, really bad thing,
but it's like taking a camera
and putting it out of focus.
It's not a good thing.
But it's really easy to correct.
Just wherever you
have it, you just
send it to the proper
place, and then that's it.
It's just intention.
Just takes a second,
and it's over with.
But right now, everybody
just take your hands
and tell me by your
hands where you
think your disk is
crossing through your body.
One major disk that runs
through the whole thing that's
usually as wide as your entire--
it's the length of the Merkaba.
It looks like a flying saucer.
But inside there is a
flat disk, actually.
OK.
You all had different ideas.
There's people-- a lot of people
were up here at the heart.
Some people were up here.
Some of you were down here.
Just quickly, this
star tetrahedron,
if you look at it from
directly through one of them,
then the stars are equal.
But when you're looking at it
sideways like that, like this,
it kind of looks like this.
And then these
stars are smaller.
I exaggerated a little bit.
These are smaller
and these are bigger.
And the disk runs directly
through the center of it.
Exactly one half of it is
above, one half is below.
And this is where--
the base of your spine.
So if you're sitting in
here and this, in essence,
if you were sitting on the
ground, your disk is the floor,
is about a 16th of
an inch difference.
And so if you've got it up here
or up here or somewhere else
like that, wherever
you had it, we're
going to make all
these corrections when
we get back from the thing.
There's going to be more.
But all you do is
with your intention,
you just bring it
down to wherever
it is so it's down there.
If you're sitting on a chair,
it's the chair pretty much.
That's kind of an
important correction.
OK.
Close your eyes again
and look at your--
either look, see, or sense
or feel your tetrahedrons.
And see if one of them
is bigger than the other.
Your first view,
that's usually correct.
And so how many people
found that one of them
was bigger than the other?
Yeah, it's probably
more than that.
Because what these
tetrahedrons are is
they represent
all the polarities
in your body in different ways.
Every single one of them.
But the primary one,
the one where it all
begins with is the top one is
your daddy and the bottom one
is your mommy.
That's the polarity that
it all started with.
And when you, especially in
the first-- from conception
to the first three years of
life, if one of your parents
was violent with you or angry
with you or abusive to you
in some way, a child
experiences pain on a level
that we don't
remember as adults.
It's really huge.
And they do all these
things to get rid
of this pain and everything.
What happens is the child
backs away from that parent
internally in their heart.
And they are protecting
themselves, really,
from the pain.
And so what happens is
in the tetrahedrons,
the tetrahedron gets smaller.
It tightens up.
And so if you put your
tetrahedrons on the screen,
you can just look and see
what-- just by looking at it,
you're going to know pretty
much what your relationship is
with your mother and your father
by seeing those tetrahedrons.
And you-- all I can say now
is you need-- if you can,
if it's possible in
any way that you can,
you need to begin to
release these traumas that
originated with your mom and
your dad, if there are any.
And then really, you
need to start then
going through all the
other people all the way up
and release them all.
That's what I was
talking about before,
because your emotional
traumas will stop you.
But I just wanted
you to know that,
that if you have one
bigger than the other,
that's what's going on.
You have something against them.
You might have both of them.
Both parents did it.
And you'll see both of them.
Even though they should be
out here, they're in here
and they're smaller.
I just wanted to make you
aware of that, really.
We talked about
the reverse spin.
Oh, yeah.
This is another one
a lot of people do.
Hopefully there's
nobody here doing this.
Some people take a set
of these like this.
And instead of connecting
to the big ones that
are around their body,
they see-- usually it's
a visual thing-- they
see a small set of them
like this, sitting
out in front of them.
And so when they're going
through the white light
and the top one,
then the bottom,
and going back and forth and
they're doing all their things,
they're seeing it
happen in front of them.
They're not actually doing it.
Is there anybody
doing that here?
You are.
Anybody else?
Well, I hate to be the
person to tell you this,
but it doesn't work.
It just simply won't
create a Merkaba field.
What happens is the
only way that you
can do it is to shift that
from those to the actual set.
Because the mind
and the heart has
to connect to the real thing.
And if it tries to connect
to an imaginary one that's
out in front of you,
it just won't work.
And
So when you get a chance,
you need to do that release.
Instead of seeing
one out there, you've
got to actually see
or sense or feel.
You don't have to see them.
If you can't see them, a lot
of times that's what happens
is you can't see them, so
you can see them better
if you do them in front.
But you must connect
with the real ones,
because otherwise the living
field won't generate itself.
Yes?
>>How do you connect
with something
that you can't see,
sense, or feel?
If my intention is just to allow
it to do what it does naturally
and I don't have any tactile
or sense of what they are,
how do you connect to that?
>>Well, there's a lot of things
we can't see, sense, or feel,
but we know it.
It's like Bluetooth, you know?
You don't see the stuff
going between there,
but you know it's real
because here you talk on this,
and it's down there.
And some things we
can't see, like air.
But we know it's there
because when it blows hard,
we can feel it.
But that was the problem in
the beginning when we first
started teaching these
out to the world,
is that nobody could see
or sense these things out
there even though
they're really there.
You can put them on
a computer screen.
But very few people can do that
because of what is required.
The technology required to do
that is very, very, very, very
expensive.
And so it's only happened--
the Russians have done it,
and I'm sure the United
States has done it,
but probably not too many
other people have done it.
And it almost takes
faith, in a way.
I'll take this to another level
in terms of when people have--
what I've seen after I
don't know how many-- I have
no idea how many people I've
been in front of with this
and looking at their fields,
but I've talked to lots of them.
And what I find is that
there's a spectrum.
And one end of the
spectrum is a person
that doesn't sense or feel
anything when they do this.
It's just nothing
going on at all.
And then on the other
end of the spectrum
is a person who
has probably been
doing meditation
for many lifetimes
and is aware of
this other level.
And they do this instantly.
They float off the
ground, they can
put their hands
through walls, and they
can do all these things.
And they go, oh yeah.
It's easy.
But what we have is a spectrum
in between those two poles.
And most people are somewhere
in there, somewhere.
And they'll feel it,
but they can't see it.
Or they can see it,
but they can't feel it.
Or there's all kinds of things.
What I do know is it
doesn't make any difference.
The Merkaba is just as
real to that person who's
floating off the
ground than to someone
who can't feel anything.
It's just as valid, and
functioning just as well.
But it is a problem.
And there's a pretty
significant amount.
It's like, about 15% or so of
the people can't feel a thing,
and others can.
And you see this, and you
start talking to people.
And here, you'll see that
some people can actually see,
which is the hardest of all.
If you can actually see your
Merkaba-- that's hard for me.
It takes-- I have to sit
for about 15 minutes.
Keep getting slow enough to
be able to get down to be
able to sense those things.
And I was a really
bad student, anyway.
[LAUGH]
The angels kept going,
oh, God, Drunvalo.
[LAUGH]
Anyway, you know,
I'll never forget
when they told me to make
one of these out a cardboard.
And I didn't know
what I was making.
They hadn't told me
yet what it was yet.
So I'm holding this little tiny
cardboard thing about this big,
and I'm going--
you know, I'd never
seen one before in my life.
And then they start telling
me about how important
it is in the universe,
and I'm going--
[LAUGH]
You've got to be kidding.
This is--
[LAUGH]
You know, and the it took me a
long time to get to the place
where they said I had
to do the meditation.
But I just kept forgetting.
I'd do it for three or
four days and then, pfft.
I'm off in the forest playing
flute or something else
like that.
And then I'd go about two weeks
and they'd kind of, Drunvalo.
You've got to meditate.
Oh yeah!
Yeah, yeah.
Oh yeah.
The meditation thing.
And so we're all different.
And we are who we
are, and it's OK.
This is not something--
nobody's going to fail this.
We're all going to be fine.
And we're going to remember.
But it is kind of tricky.
If you are in a position
where you can't feel
or sense or anything,
you just have
to go-- this is
where I think-- this
is where my wife could
step in, because she
is pure female at work.
I'm pure male pretty much,
and she's pure female.
And her work would really
help a lot of people
like that, because she
doesn't do any of these things
with logic.
It's all just with images.
And she can-- she could
move consciousness around
with images.
And she's getting
really good right now,
because she's been working
for the last year and a half
in Moscow for these large
corporations, helping them--
>>[INAUDIBLE]
>>Hm?
Yeah, Uralsib right?
Uralsib.
And she appears to really
be helping them from what
we're-- the feedback,
what we're getting.
But in teaching with
them, she's learned a lot.
She has really--
she's got almost as
much as they've got from her.
She's got a lot from them.
She's really fallen
in love with them now.
She loves the Russians.
[LAUGH]
It's-- she sees who they are
because she's seen through
their eyes so much, and she
understands all they've been
through and all the
pain and all the stuff.
And so she-- at first, she
didn't-- she just wanted to do
a couple and leave.
But now she's at the point where
she wants to keep doing this
because it's-- she's learning
so much, and the same time,
it's helping so many people.
But she may teach here
next year, we hope.
We're really--
Diane and I are both
trying to get her to do
this, do four of them.
And it's incredibly
different than anything
that I'm doing at all.
It's totally female.
And there's no
logic to anything.
There's no--
[LAUGHTER]
You know, I listen to what she's
doing, and I've been through it
and I watch it.
And you see all of the sudden
she does something like, see
a tree.
Now see a dog over here.
Now see a star.
And you do that, and then
everybody in the room cries.
[LAUGHTER]
And you're going--
Why?
There's no why.
[LAUGHTER]
Forget the why thing.
It just does, you know?
And I can't explain it.
I've really tried.
I've given up, kind of.
I understand a lot more than
I did when I first started.
But when you're male,
you're just not female.
[LAUGHTER]
It's just, I can't
get there from here.
[LAUGHTER]
So anyway, I don't
know what to say.
That question's been asked to
me so many times that I just
don't know where to go with it.
Because you just have to
hang in there long enough.
With the work that
we're doing today
now, or over the
next five days, it
may change for you completely.
Because now it's not
about an outer field.
It's about your heart
and your inner work.
And once you-- the Merkaba is
pretty much useless until it's
connected to the heart.
And then you don't even need to
think about that at that point.
The way that life uses it
is kind of like a remote.
It kind of uses it like
a television or so.
It's like, it's a thing out
here that can create images.
You understand more.
And you don't have to
really think about it much.
And once you really
get into your heart,
you can forget about doing
all this stuff and everything.
It will link solid.
And I'm just trying to
encourage you a little.
[LAUGHTER]
Another question?
OK.
>>This happens just very rarely.
But time to time, I'll get
really dizzy and nauseous.
And I was wondering
what causes that.
>>How long you been
doing the Merkaba?
>>Since January.
>>Well, we now have
something superimposed
over the top of this.
I have-- way back in the
'90s, occasionally someone
would say that they
would get dizzy.
And because you really
are having something
spinning around you
at a very fast speed.
But my intuition is
that what's going on
with you is probably
not that, but it has
to do with the magnetic field.
When I talk about this,
I think on the third day,
there's a bunch of symptoms.
And if you feel these
symptoms, then you're
going to realize
what's going on,
and then how to fix it is what
we're trying to figure out now.
And the world doesn't
know what to do.
All the world knows is that
it's affecting people's health.
OK.
Let me keep going with
this a little bit more.
Another thing, just
so you know, is
that when you're making
the Merkaba field,
the analogy of a tree and
a seed is very similar.
It's a living field.
It's not a mechanical thing.
You know, like wheels
rotating around or something.
It's living.
I didn't understand
it when I first
wrote those first two books.
I thought it was the brain
and the heart working.
But it's not.
It's the left and right brain.
And the left brain
is going this way,
and the right brain
is going that way.
And it has a-- but it's alive.
It's part of your consciousness.
It's not something
separate from you.
It is part of you.
And eventually you're going
to find out it's way more
than you think it is.
It actually is the
universe itself.
But we haven't got there yet.
But the analogy is like when
you're just starting this,
normally it takes a
very, very long time,
and it happens naturally.
It just occurs.
If you reach a certain
level of consciousness,
no matter what you look
like externally, you reach--
there's-- consciousness
is consciousness,
no matter what you look like.
And there's various
levels of this.
When you get to this level,
this polarity consciousness
level, and you-- when you start
over every day when you're
doing this, you're actually
bringing it up from your navel
to your heart.
And each day you're
starting over.
This is synthetic.
This is not natural.
This is not the way
it normally happens.
It normally happens over usually
at least 100 to 150,000 years.
Before-- and then one day you
wake up and you go, oh, yeah.
And you understand it.
Well, it's just like--
it's like a little tree.
If you plant a seed and
you put it in the ground,
you have to keep
watering that tree
and protect it, and maybe
put little things around it
or a fence around
it or something
to protect it to grow up.
And you have to keep
watering it every single day,
or you have to keep
your attention on it.
But once that tree
gets up pretty big,
you can kind of let go.
It will take off on its own.
It's got its roots
down in there.
It's connected into
water, and that's it.
You don't have to
protect it anymore.
It'll take off.
And the Merkaba's
the same kind of way.
When you first start doing it,
requires a lot of attention,
and it takes about two years.
And you have to keep doing
this every year, every day.
And you have to keep--
it's a long process.
But after two years, the
Merkaba is permanent.
It's not going to
stop ever again.
It'll just take off
as part of your-- even
if you were to die
and reincarnate,
your Merkaba would
still be with you.
It would stay with you.
It's part of your
consciousness now.
It isn't part of the body.
It's part of your consciousness.
But your body is part of
your consciousness too.
It's not separate from
your consciousness either.
>>After you finish the Merkaba
meditation and you walk around
and you are aware of
the Merkaba field,
you see the center of the
spheres in the heart chakra
or in the navel.
And if you already
feel it here, why
do you need all
the time when you
begin to study from the navel
and bring it back to there?
>>The reason is because
everybody is centered
at the navel right now.
And that's because the Earth is.
The Earth has been centered
there for a long time.
But where she's going and
what she's doing with hers
and what we're trying to get
everybody else to trigger
is to move it up to
the heart chakra.
And so on the 14th breath, we
move it up to the heart chakra.
But that's only good for
47 hours, and it will--
[TICK]
--die after 47 hours.
And so once a day or definitely
before the 47th hour,
you have to do this again.
And you do it by
starting all over again
and bringing it back up.
It's not natural.
It's synthetic.
Everything that the Earth has
been doing with consciousness
is synthetic.
If you go way back even to
the Egyptians 6,000 years ago,
they were building pyramids,
physical pyramids using rods,
tuning forks, [? frails ?],
all of these things
to raise consciousness.
And it's not normal.
It's synthetic.
6,000 years before
that, a little more,
we basically got a
bump on our head.
Something happened during
the time of Atlantis
that caused us-- we were already
entering into that level,
and then we lost it.
Then we came down.
And then so life said, if we
hadn't have already entered
into it, the rest
of the universe
would not have allowed us
to do what I'm doing now.
But because we'd already
entered into it--
and it really was only a
small number of people--
but nevertheless, we had got it.
But because we had
achieved it once,
then they gave us permission
to go back and do it again.
But in doing it, we're
doing it synthetically.
And it doesn't always work.
We've watched many, many, many,
many planets go through this
before, and a lot
of times-- I don't
know what the
percentage is, but-- it
works more than it doesn't
work-- but still, there's
lots of times when
it doesn't work
and the whole planet just dies.
Doesn't make it.
So you have to know
that it's not--
this is not a normal thing.
This is one way that they
have found a long time ago
that works.
But eventually, you'll bring
it up here about two years--
if you just started today,
at about two years from now,
you'll bring it up here
and it'll just stay there.
And you don't even have to do
this ever again or anything.
It's going to stay there.
It's just part of you.
>>So when you see
doing the day, you
see during the heart chakra.
>>Yeah.
During the day, you're up here.
But then every time
you start over,
you've got to bring it back
down here and bring it back up.
It's kind of like,
you know, like one
of these wheels in
playgrounds, and you
have to just keep giving it
a push to keep it spinning.
You have to keep doing this.
You have to bring your
hand back over here
and do it again, and bring
it over here and do it again.
But eventually if that
wheel is done right
through vacuum energy, it
would just keep going forever.
How many people, when
they were doing this-- I
know because I was following my
instructions from the angels,
they said on the top one
to see white light in it
like lightning, which is
just the color of pure prana.
And then you move it
down on the other one.
How many people noticed as
you started doing this--
and there's nothing wrong with
this-- how many people noticed
that when you started
doing it, it wasn't white?
It started changing
colors, and it
started becoming all
different kinds of colors.
Can I see with hands
how many people?
There's no rules.
Well, what is really
going on is the angels
gave it to this-- well,
I understood this later
from them.
They gave us kind of like
a generic version of it.
And they assumed
that you were going
to learn these things
as you went along,
what was really going on here.
And interesting enough,
not very many people did.
It's communication.
It's communication between
your higher self and you.
And if you watch
these colors changing
and everything else like
that, you have to feel them.
You can't think
of them logically.
But it's like
listening to music.
You can't go-- you can get
into the logical side of music,
but it's boring.
But you have to feel them.
And if you do, you will feel
what they're saying to you.
They're trying to
communicate with you.
And it isn't just
sight and that.
It's all of your senses.
It's all five.
All of them.
Right now you have five.
You're going to have
six pretty soon.
And actually seven and
then it jumps to 12, 13.
We're going to be about 13
here, not too long from now.
But right now we have five.
So there's sight.
There's sound.
How many people
hear their Merkaba?
I know you do.
[LAUGH]
You told me.
You do?
You do.
Well, there's other things.
There's smell.
There's-- a lot of people smell
flowers or different kinds
of things that are in
the air around there.
It's usually very positive.
But if it's negative,
what we-- when
we say positive or
negative, that's
just because we're in
polarity consciousness.
If you're communicating
with your higher
self, which is in
unity consciousness,
they don't see that.
They don't think that way.
And then there's touch.
Has anybody ever done their
Merkaba and then felt--
[STATIC]
[LAUGHTER]
--felt yourself, or felt
something touching you?
>>Yes.
>>Yeah.
I mean, when you get to
touch, your higher self
is really close.
They are really,
really, really close.
They are really focused on you.
Now we're going down
to the Angel Ceremony.
This begins this whole workshop.
And this is a very
important ceremony.
What it does is it begins
to open our hearts in a way
that we normally don't
encounter in our everyday lives.
And through a very
sacred way, where
I bless in the four
directions and I
make a sacred
space for us all, I
have you chant hu, which is H-U.
>>(CHANTING) Hu.
>>And while you're
chanting that,
I will be going around
and doing something
that temporarily brings all
of your chakras into balance.
It doesn't last a long time,
but it helps in this ceremony.
And then after we do
that, I will say prayers,
and we will then get
to the Angel Ceremony.
The Angel Ceremony is
a very specific thing.
It's very old.
Every person on
Earth has two angels
that are connected to them.
They may not know this, but
they have to have to in order
to have polarity.
And there are two
of you on Earth.
You divide your spirit into two
different people, usually one
male and one female.
And there's an angel associated
with each one of those people.
And this one angel
will know who they are.
Now you may not even
believe in angels.
You may not think
that they're real,
but just go through this anyway.
What happens here is
that real angel is
going to stand in front of you.
And then at the right
time in the ceremony,
with your permission
of course, we
will turn them
around where they're
facing toward the
center of the circle.
They're going to move back
and become part of you
for the next five days.
They will be part of your body.
They will sleep with you, they
will look through your eyes,
and they will begin to
help you understand what is
about to be presented to you.
When you have a problem and
you don't understand something,
you can close your eyes,
connect with this angel
that you're going to soon
become familiar with,
and they can tell you
anything you need to know.
It is the beginning of what
is called your higher self.
A higher self has higher
selves to higher selves.
There are many higher selves.
Other beings that
actually are you
on another level of existence.
They actually interface
directly in the fourth dimension
with human beings.
And they are you, and you
exist on that level also.
And so this is who you're going
to be connecting with when
they walk back into your body.
It is not somebody else.
It is you on another
level of existence.
And for this reason, it's OK.
You can relax and
let this happen.
Once it does happen,
they will stay here
for the entire five days that
we are doing this workshop.
And then at that end of those
five days, they will leave you.
If you wish them to stay longer,
that's between you and them,
and you can talk to them.
But right now, it's only
for these five days.
This is the prayer
that we say right
before we bring in
the angels, and this
is how the prayer goes.
Great spirit, mother, father,
child, God, creator of all life
everywhere, we thank
you for these circles,
and we thank you
for the love that is
flowing through these circles.
For without this
love, we would never
be able to see you in the eyes
of every person before us.
And may all the
beings of light who
wish there to be love and
truth and beauty and trust
and harmony and peace
and reverence for God,
may the beings that
hold these principles
and that are working with
us now be here to help us
so that we can understand
what is being given to us,
and we can live it and
breathe it and make it
real here on Earth now, today.
Now for the Angel
Ceremony, we are
going to invite the
angels in at this time.
And I want you to
go inside yourself
to invoke them or
ask them to come out
and to be here in front of you.
And when they are
here, whether you
can see them or sense them or
feel them, it doesn't matter.
They will be here.
And this will be the beginning,
something that may entirely
change your whole life.